# q5.1
## a
a) What is the purpose of a design pattern ?

### a answer
The purpose of a design pattern is to organize a set of behaviours in a way that the program can be easily maintained
and easy to understand, and easy to expand on new behaviors or features.

## b
b) When do you apply the Observer pattern ?

### b answer
An observer pattern is used extensively when developing UI applications. For example when there is a button and the program
wants to do an action when the button is pressed using an ActionListener this would use the Observer pattern.

## c 
c) You review a design written by somebody else for an application
and you find these:

  - an interface Shape with a method draw()
  - a class Circle that implements Shape
  - a class Rectangle that implements Shape
  - a class CompoundShape that:
       o  implements interface Shape
       o  aggregates 0 or more Shape objects, 
       o  has an extra method called add(Shape sh)
       o  for implementing method draw() calls the draw() method for all
          aggregated Shape objects.
    You assume that a CompoundShape object is made of multiple shapes.
What design pattern is at work in this application? Explain your answer.

### c answer
This is using a Strategy pattern because we have a base class called Shape where the other classes Circle, Rectangle, 
and CompoundShape are inheriting the draw method interface, but each class will individually have different implementations
within that draw routine.

We also see a Composite pattern in the CompoundShape where it holds multiple shapes and calls the children's draw routine.
 
## d
d) The TitledBorder class can give a title to a border. Consider the code

    panel.setBorder(new TitledBorder(new EtchedBorder(), "Enter Option"));

What design pattern(s) are at work? Explain your answer.
(a similar example is in the textbook/notes)

### d answer
This is a decorator pattern because we are setting up a not only a Titled boarder, but a special kind using the EtchedBoarder class
It would be possible to just use the TitledBoarder class which remain undecorated.
